Newsletters: add 227 (2022-11-23) (#935)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2022-11-23-newsletter.md

  pre-BIP339 peers for backward compatibility.

- [How do I create a taproot multisig address?]({{bse}}115700)
  Pieter Wuille points out that Bitcoin Core's existing [multisig][topic multisignature] RPCs (like
  `createmultisig` and `addmultisigaddress`) will only support legacy wallets
  and outlines that with Bitcoin Core 24.0, users will be able to use
  [descriptors][topic descriptors] and RPCs (like `deriveaddresses` and
  `importdescriptors`) along with the new `multi_a` descriptor to create
  [taproot][topic taproot]-compatible multisig scripts.

- [Is it possible to skip IBD on pruned node?]({{bse}}116030)
  While not currently supported in Bitcoin Core, Pieter Wuille points to the
  [assumeutxo][topic assumeutxo] project which would allow for a new node to
  bootstrap by using trusted snapshots of the UTXO set.

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [Bitcoin Core 24.0 RC4][] is a release candidate for the
  next version of the network's most widely used full node

>   implementation.  A [guide to testing][bcc testing] is available.

Reviewer: We could mention here that v24.0 was tagged as final five days ago: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/releases/tag/v24.0

  **Warning:** this release candidate includes the `mempoolfullrbf`
  configuration option which several protocol and application developers
  believe could lead to problems for merchant services as described in
  previous newsletters [#222][news222 rbf] and [#223][news223 rbf].  It
  could also cause problems for transaction relay as described in
  [Newsletter #224][news224 rbf].

- [LND 0.15.5-beta.rc1][] is a release candidate for a maintenance

>   release of LND.  It's contains only minor bug fixes according to its

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  release of LND.  It contains only minor bug fixes according to its
```

  planned release notes.

> - [Core Lightning 22.11rc1][] FIXME:harding

Reviewer 3: [v22.11rc2](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/releases/tag/v22.11rc2) now tagged

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #25730][] updates the `listunspent` RPC with a new
  argument that will include in the results any immature coinbase
  outputs---outputs which can't yet be spent because fewer than 100
  blocks have passed since they were included in the miner coinbase
  transaction of a block.

- [LND #7082][] updates the way invoices without requested amounts are

>   created to allow including route hints, which can help the spender find

Reviewer 2: Thought this might be a little clearer...
```suggestion
  created to allow the inclusion of route hints, which can help the spender find
```

questions and answers from the Bitcoin Stack Exchange, announcements of
new releases and release candidates, and descriptions of notable changes
to popular Bitcoin infrastructure projects.

## News

*No significant news this week was found on the Bitcoin-Dev or
Lightning-Dev mailing lists.*

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin Stack Exchange

*[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [Did the P2SH BIP-0016 make some Bitcoin unspendable?]({{bse}}115803)
  User bca-0353f40e lists 6 outputs that existed with the P2SH script format,
  `OP_HASH160 OP_DATA_20 [hash_value] OP_EQUAL`, before [BIP16][]'s activation.
  One of those outputs had been spent under the old rules before activation and

>   any remaining UTXOs are still spendable under BIP16's backward compatibility rules.

Reviewer 4: Thanks for that excellent explanation!

>   any remaining UTXOs are still spendable under BIP16's backward compatibility rules.

Reviewer 3: @johnzweng Thanks so much, changing the answer to reflect this

  software in coinbase transactions as well as when sending using [pay-to-IP
  address][wiki p2ip].

- [Why are both txid and wtxid sent to peers?]({{bse}}115907)
  Pieter Wuille references [BIP339][] and explains that while using wtxid is
  better for relay (due to malleability among other reasons), some peers do not
  support the newer wtxid identifiers and txids are supported for older
  pre-BIP339 peers for backward compatibility.

- [How do I create a taproot multisig address?]({{bse}}115700)
  Pieter Wuille points out that Bitcoin Core's existing [multisig][topic multisignature] RPCs (like
  `createmultisig` and `addmultisigaddress`) will only support legacy wallets
  and outlines that with Bitcoin Core 24.0, users will be able to use
  [descriptors][topic descriptors] and RPCs (like `deriveaddresses` and
  `importdescriptors`) along with the new `multi_a` descriptor to create
  [taproot][topic taproot]-compatible multisig scripts.

- [Is it possible to skip Initial Block Download (IBD) on pruned node?]({{bse}}116030)
  While not currently supported in Bitcoin Core, Pieter Wuille points to the
  [assumeutxo][topic assumeutxo] project which would allow for a new node to

>   bootstrap by using trusted snapshots of the UTXO set.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  bootstrap by fetching a UTXO set that can be verified by a
  hard-coded hash (so that the snapshot source need not be trusted).
```

Reviewer 3: Took part of this suggestion, thanks @LarryRuane !

  newsletters [#222][news222 rbf] and [#223][news223 rbf].  It could
  also cause problems for transaction relay as described in [Newsletter
  #224][news224 rbf].
-->{% endcomment %}

- [LND 0.15.5-beta.rc2][] is a release candidate for a maintenance
  release of LND.  It contains only minor bug fixes according to its
  planned release notes.

- [Core Lightning 22.11rc2][] is a release candidate for the next major
  version of CLN.  It'll also be the first release to use a new version
  numbering scheme, although CLN releases continue to use [semantic
  versioning][].

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #25730][] updates the `listunspent` RPC with a new
  argument that will include in the results any immature coinbase

>   outputs---outputs which can't yet be spent because fewer than 100

Reviewer 4: nit
```suggestion
  outputs---outputs that can't yet be spent because fewer than 100
```
